Update documentation on writing tests for ``pylint`` (#5366)
PyCQA/pylint: doc/development_guide/testing.rst

    be used for testing almost anything Pylint related.

  - The functional tests can be found in the ``/pylint/test/functional`` directory. They are
    mainly used to test whether Pylint emits the correct messages.

Before writing a new test it is often a good idea to ensure that your change isn't
breaking a current test. You can run our tests using the tox_ package, as in::

    python -m tox
    python -m tox -epy36 # for Python 3.6 suite only
    python -m tox -epylint # for running Pylint over Pylint's codebase
    python -m tox -eformatting # for running formatting checks over Pylint's codebase

It's usually a good idea to run tox_ with ``--recreate``. This flag tells tox_ to redownload
all dependencies before running the tests. This can be important when a new version of
astroid_ or any of the other dependencies has been published::

    python -m tox --recreate # The entire tox environment will be recreated
    python -m tox --recreate -e py310 # The python 3.10 tox environment will be recreated

To run only a specific test suite, use a pattern for the test filename
(**without** the ``.py`` extension), as in::

>     python -m tox -e py36 -- -k test_functional
>     python -m tox -e py36 -- -k  \*func\*
>     python -m tox --recreate -e py36 -- -k test_functional # With recreation of the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    python -m tox -e py39 -- -k test_functional
    python -m tox -e py39 -- -k  \*func\*
    python -m tox --recreate -e py39 -- -k test_functional # With recreation of the environment
    
    # Faster alternative, but you must handle the dependencies with pip editable install
    pytest -k test_functional 
    pytest -k  \*func\* # Faster alternative
    
```
Also upgraded the version so we appear hype :)

Author: Should we add those last 3 lines? The 5 lines after this basically cover `pytest` already.

Since we use pytest_ to run the tests, you can also use it on its own.

> We do recommend using the tox_ command though::

Reviewer: We should probably suggest ``pytest``... tox is astonishingly slow* (especially with ``--recreate`` !). It was a big barrier to contributing to pylint at first, at least for me. And I had a good computer. The test suite is even longer now, as we added standard test and also a benchmark that is heavy, so the slowness is even more of a problem now. Also I think the CI should prevent the issue that tox prevents anyway.

\* I just tested and tox is a lot faster now. 68s for pytest vs 74s for tox. (Also my computer got a LOT better) But the launch time is really a problem when launching a single test (2s vs 4s).

Author: Seeing as this is mostly read by new contributors I think suggesting `tox` makes sense. The difference in time is negligible and makes sure all dependencies etc. are set correctly for new contributors could help avoid problems. More experienced contributors will use `pytest` anyway probably.

Reviewer: Fair enough.

During development, it's sometimes helpful to run all functional tests in your
current environment in order to have faster feedback. Run from Pylint root directory with::

    python tests/test_functional.py

You can use all the options you would use for pytest, for example `-k "test_functional[len_checks]"`.
Furthermore, if required the .txt file with expected messages can be regenerated based
on the the current output by appending `--update-functional-output` to the command line::

    python tests/test_functional.py --update-functional-output -k "test_functional[len_checks]"

Writing unittest tests
------------------------

Most other tests reside in the '/pylint/test' directory. These unittests can be used to test
almost all functionality within Pylint. A good step before writing any new unittests is to look
at some tests that test a similar funcitionality. This can often help write new tests.

If your new test requires any additional files you can put those in the
`/pylint/test/regrtest_data` directory. This is the directory we use to store any data needed for
the unittests.

Writing functional tests for configurations
-------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: You wrote the documentation for the code I made 😍 ?

Author: Yeah, felt bad to say you should do it while I could do it myself as well 😄

Reviewer: Haha, don't feel bad, you're already doing a lot :)

To test the different way to configure Pylint there is also a small functional test framework
for configuration files. These tests can be found in the '/pylint/test/config' directory.

To create a new test create a new file with an unused name in the directory of that type

> of configuration file. Subsequently add a `.json` file with the same name which records

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of configuration file. Subsequently add a `filename.result.json` file with 'filename' the same name than your configuration file. This file should records
```

Author: I can't commit this suggestion, but I agree. Can you re-suggest?

Reviewer: Can't commit either, it's strange.

```suggestion
of configuration file. Subsequently add a `filename.result.json` file with 'filename' the same name than your configuration file. This file should records
```

Reviewer: Edit : Just saw you did it manually, thanks !

what the configuration should be **compared to the standard configuration**.

For example, if the configuration should add a warning to the list of disabled messages the
`.json` file should include::

    "functional_append": {
        "disable": [["a-message-to-be-added"],]
    }

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the configuration should add a warning to the list of disabled messages
and you changed the configuration for ``job`` to 10 instead of the default 1 the
`.json` file should include::

    "functional_append": {
        "disable": [["a-message-to-be-added"],]
    }
    "jobs": 10,

```

Author: 👍
